Update to Real World Identifiers page and related content (#679)
openownership/data-standard: docs/standard/modelling/identifiers.rst

.. _guidance-identifiers:

Real world identifiers
==================================

> Real world identifiers are essential for making beneficial ownership data interoperable. By 'real world identifier' we mean reference strings for entities, people and items (issued by authoritative registration schemes) which have gained widespread use in the world. People can use them to verify that the referenced person, entity or item exists.

Author: Yup, I've edited down.

> In BODS, real world identifiers can be published for:

Author: Done.

- entities
- people
- stock markets and trading exchanges
- tradable securities

Entity identifiers
-------------------------------

Use an :ref:`Identifier <schema-identifier>` in the ``identifiers`` array of an Entity Statement to supply a company registration number, Legal Entity Identifier (LEI), or other real world identifier.

The value for ``Identifier.scheme`` SHOULD come from `org-id.guide <http://org-id.guide>`_. This resource contains details of company registers and other identifier sources. If the identifier scheme you need to reference is not already listed on org-id.guide `propose a new entry <https://org-idguide-handbook.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribute/#proposing-a-new-entry>`_.

If it is useful to publish an internal identifier from your data management system, first consider whether it should be used as a :ref:`record identifier <record-identifiers>`. If not, either:

> - publish your full list of internal identifiers, and propose it as an entry to `org-id.guide <http://org-id.guide>`_, or

Reviewer: I would either have this bullet list as one sentence or rephrase it so it doesn't have the 'or' at the end of the first bullet.

Author: I've left this as is. I feel it's too long to squish into one unformatted sentence. And we need to retain the 'or'.

- use ``schemeName`` to identify your system and leave ``scheme`` blank

Person identifiers
----------------------------------

Global identifiers
+++++++++++++++++++

> If the system holds identification numbers for a person, and these can be published without privacy or security risks, then these SHOULD be included in the ``identifiers`` array of the Person Statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the system holds identification numbers for a person, and these can be published, then these SHOULD be included in the ``identifiers`` array of the Person Statement.
```

Reviewer: the privacy risks are addressed further down so could shorten this a bit?

Author: I'm going to leave this bit of repetition in only because it sometimes isn't something that an implementer has thought much about. So we can't really say it enough!

In such cases, the values for ``scheme`` SHOULD be:

{JURISDICTION}-{TYPE}

> Where {JURISDICTION} is an `ISO 3-digit country code <https://www.iso.org/iso-3166-country-codes.html>`_ (or one of the extensions in `ICAO Document 9303 §5 <http://www.icao.int/publications/Documents/9303_p3_cons_en.pdf>`_, pages 21-23). And {TYPE} is one of 'PASSPORT', 'TAXID' or 'IDCARD' (see below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where {JURISDICTION} is an `ISO 3-digit country code <https://www.iso.org/iso-3166-country-codes.html>`_ (or one of the extensions in `ICAO Document 9303 §5 <http://www.icao.int/publications/Documents/9303_p3_cons_en.pdf>`_, pages 21-23). And {TYPE} is one of 'PASSPORT', 'TAXID' or 'IDCARD'.
```

The following identification types can currently be used in BODS. Suggestions for new types should be made through the `issue tracker <https://github.com/openownership/data-standard/issues>`_.

**PASSPORT**

Passport numbers SHOULD follow the format of the identifier line in a machine-readable passport (see `Appendix B to Part 4 of ICAO Doc 9303 <http://www.icao.int/publications/Documents/9303_p4_cons_en.pdf>`_) including at least the document number.

Parsers should be able to extract the document number from the first 9 characters, and to access any subsequent information supplied according to the ICAO format.

**TAXID**

Taxpayer identification regimes vary from country to country. Where guidance on including numbers from a particular jurisdiction is required, this may be included here in future.

**IDCARD**

ID card systems vary. Where guidance on including numbers from a particular jurisdiction is required, this may be included here in future.

Special case: internal identifiers
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Data management systems may generate internal identifiers for people, or for records about people, or both.

> If multiple records in the system are known to relate to the same person, the data management system SHOULD assign a unique identifier to the person, and publish this identifier in the associated records. The identifier SHOULD be included in the ``identifiers`` array with a ``schemeName`` value ‘{publisher name}-{identifier type}’. For example, 'AtlantisCorporateRegister-PersonReference'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If multiple records in the system can relate to the same person, the data management system SHOULD assign a unique identifier to the person, and publish this identifier in the associated records. The identifier SHOULD be included in the ``identifiers`` array with a ``schemeName`` value ‘{publisher name}-{identifier type}’. For example, 'AtlantisCorporateRegister-PersonReference'.
```

Reviewer: this is a system wide thing right? not something that would be applied only to specific people with multiple records?

Author: There's quite a big difference between what we'd be asking with these two formulations. In yours: we're saying that if the system is designed in this way then they should go off and resolve people's identities and then issue unique per-person identifiers. In mine: we're saying that if the system is designed in this way AND they already resolve people's identities then they should issue unique per-person identifiers. 

So I'm going to leave it as-is, with the easier-to-meet requirement.

Alternatively, if a known person is only ever represented by one record on the system, then an internal person identifier may serve as the ``recordId``. See :ref:`record-identifiers`.

Market identifier codes (MICs)
----------------------------------------------

See this :ref:`example data <examples-plc>` for a valid use of MICs.

> Two properties in an Entity Statement’s :ref:`Securities Listing <schema-securities-listing>` object identify where a security is traded: the ``operatingMarketIdentifierCode`` of the operating market plus a ``marketIdentifierCode``. The ``marketIdentifierCode`` SHOULD be the same as the ``operatingMarketIdentifierCode`` if the security is traded on a main exchange. The ``marketIdentifierCode`` will differ where a security is traded on a segment of an exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two properties in an Entity Statement’s :ref:`Securities Listing <schema-securities-listing>` object identify where a security is traded: the ``operatingMarketIdentifierCode`` of the operating market and the ``marketIdentifierCode``. The ``marketIdentifierCode`` SHOULD be the same as the ``operatingMarketIdentifierCode`` if the security is traded on a main exchange. The ``marketIdentifierCode`` will differ where a security is traded on a segment of an exchange.
```

Author: Done.
